In August, Agile2018 was held at in San Diego, with 2,347 attendees attending 279 sessions, selected from 1500 applications. My learning objectives focused on sessions that helped with improving team culture and cohesion, and transformation at the enterprise level.  Below are seven key take-aways:
1. The importance of questions
  A theme in the team cohesion sessions was focusing on what types of questions you ask, whether in retrospectives or in one-on-ones.  The type of question can help build trust, and determines the type of coach you are to development teams, product owners, or executives.  One session discussed the importance of <i> humble inquiry </i>. Humble inquiry maximizes curiousity, and puts the focus on learning from someone else while accessing one's own ignorance.  This also helps remove bias from the questions.
  A related idea was shared at a session on <i> clear questions </i>.  Common in the therapy world, clear questions are essentially questions without bias, and focus on accepting answers received and asking adjacent questions.  A great exercise from this session is to ask people what they're like when they're at their best.  From there, ask adjacent questions.  Here's some examples:
   - What kind of....?
   - Where are you?
   - What happens just before?
   - Then what happens?
   You may start to feel like a therapist, but there's a reason they use these questions.  They're useful at facilitating people reaching their own outcomes, a key part of any type of coaching.
2. Kanban that portfolio!
  In many of the enterprise transformation sessions, the focus was less on what to do with your teams, or how to form good teams, or what it means to manage in agile, and more around how to manage your work.  The answer is straight from Lean principles: visualize the workflow.  Take a look at which initiatives are in process, which ones haven't started yet, and talk pragmatically about limiting your work in progress.  Often, this leads to interesting realizations and tough decisions amongst senior leadership, forcing decisions that have been put off to finally be made.
3. Know How to Experiment
  Proving out concepts is important, and it's important to be able to act quickly to test great ideas.  Several sessions focused on parts of the Lean Start-up model. One that really stood out was David Bland's session on Lean Experiments.  He essentially turned the Lean Start-up model around.  Rather than build-measure-learn, which is how start-ups typically go about it, figure out what you want to learn, what you would wnat to measure to validate it, and then build what you need to measure.  
  This seems like good advice, particularly for organizations that aren't start-ups.  Basically, there's an idea for something you'd like to do, and then you examine what assumptions you're making about the idea, and then try to learn about those assumptions. Some things that you might want to learn is if people want something, or if it's profitable, or if we can even execute on it.  There are metrics around each of those, and ways to measure, and then you build things that will help you measure and prove the idea.
  
The conference proved a very useful opportunity to do my own learning, and an interesting opportunity to network with the broader agile community.  Looking forward to Agile2019 in DC! 
